12/30/2020
Had some issues with referencing in Trodes 2 but those seem to be resolved

Currently trying to see spike channels, but tons of 60hz noise
- Maybe ground screw and wire aren't well connected?
- Referencing to a channel seems to help some, but doesn't get rid of enough noise that I could see spikes
- Noise seems to come and go randomly, on average 1 min on 1 min off
-- By off I mean low noise, still present

12/31/2020
Tried wrapping aluminum foil around drive (see google photos), grounded and not grounded. No effect.
Tried touching ground connection with copper wire that was connected to MCU ground (see recordings labeled groundtest). No effect.
Messaged Spikegadgets about glitch in workspace. Use 32ch_182 config file from now on.
Behaviorally he's great, can rear pretty well already!
Weirdly covering the HDMI cable and commutator in aluminum foil seems to cut down on noise! How has spike gadgets not run into this problem!?

1/2/2021
David came and we debugged some stuff. Audio helps a lot ... need to get on that. Could clearly hear the noise pop up whenever I tweaked the ground wire (and not when I tweaked any tetrode wires)
lowered the tetrodes a bunch (4 turns on most of them, see notes) and that lowered the noise and between large noise bursts the signal looked great with ripples and a cell! At the end the headstage just fell off.
I put him under iso and resoldered the ground wire. Unfortunately I destroyed tetrode 3 in the process. I also reconnected the headstage. Now not seeing any noise, and looks like we can get ripples on both hemispheres (saw on 8 this morning, and 4 after this procedure).
Broken channels: tet 2 ch 1, tet 7 ch 1
    tet7 is broken in EIB, tet 2 likely due to breaking the wire during procedure or adjusting

1/3/2021
Maybe a cell on tet 3 so maybe that one wasn't destroyed? There's a cell on it so maybe that's actually the best one right now? Or they're all too deep  hah, gonna wait one more day and then tomorrow turn some up and some down.

1/4/2021
Well now a different pair of channels looks broken .... tet7ch2 and tet3ch1
OK no tet2ch1 is intermittently looking broken and looking OK ... probably shouldn't use it.
...I wonder if the ground wire is touching the pins intermittently and messing up the signal?

1/5/2021
Consistently/slowly gaining weight. Will start up training again tomorrow
Fuuuu ... had the wrong channel map. Now corrected, should exclude t3c2, t6c1, and t7c1. Also t7 actually was in the cell layer then I turned a whole turn down ... now bringing it back up but damn hope I didn't lose it!

1/6/2021

1/7/2021
Left tetrodes where they are.
Ran the quadrant training (one well per quadrant, refilled when found another) with wells: 13 20 39 42
He did great, drank a bunch. Will move onto next training phase tomorrow

1/8/2021
Weirdly have pulled back a bunch on 7 without losing the cells ... Gonna let everything sit again and see if things change. Maybe tomorrow can resume turning.
Testing stim today. Hooked up wires OK. Checked output with just a resistor from stim box and it looks fine. It might be low on battery. The stim waveform is a triangle shape as opposed to a square wave. At first was two squares in the same direction before charging it at all. Should charge overnight and check again tomorrow.
60Hz noise appeared on unfiltered with stim plugged in, but LFP (which is referenced unlike raw) looks OK. Definitely more false positives from activelink though at low detection threshold. But at high threshold they all look like good ripples on tet 7 still.
Around 6 mins mark starting ripple triggered stim. A few trains but not crazy. Behavior seems unaffected. Currently at 41.2uA
Oh wow a flurry of ripples right after I turned it off (but also sadly stopped recording). Another rebound phenomenon?
LED works. Black on drive connects to striped cable which connects to black arduino cable which goes to arduino GND. Other one currently plugge dinto 3.3V but should work at 5V but haven't tried.
AGHAHGUIDSGHSD One of the tetrodes caught on the stim cable. I think 6 but not sure. Lots at least 2 channels, maybe all 4.


1/11/2021
Ran hooked up for the first time. Overall went well. Had to shorten the stim and LED wires around minute 6 because he could reach them. Taped so should be good in the future. Very few wells found because was distracted by pulleys, but that should get better over time. Lots of 60Hz noise on the track, will have to think about how to deal with that. The ripples still looked fine by eye though. Pulleys worked ok, but stim wire got trapped under wheels at one point.
Was going to run again but 60Hz was bad enough that ripples were constantly being detected. Figured out in sleep box afterwards that 60Hz shows up whenever the stim wire is hooked up. Doesn't depend on LED. Probably because the wires go up along ceiling and back down and also go right next to MCU power supply. Tomorrow will start by wrapping that whole wire in shielding and trying to get a better route for it. Might also be worth throwing that extra mesh material around the whole environment if there's enough. Maybe doesn't even have to completely surround, just if there's some on all sides and it's all connected.
Last night I turned the lights off at 745. This morning turned them on at 845. Tonight turning them off again at 730. Leaving wells full for tomorrow first session.

01/12/2021
Lights on at 840
First channel on 6 is broken, luckily others look fine
Really weird effect happening. Can look at recording around 2pm. Strong ripples after turning off stim around mins 10-20. Then stim back on and they stop within a minute. Back off and they start up slowly. Same again: on/stop, off/start slowly. By around 26mins in they're up and accelerating again. Could be an NREM thing? Or just can't read them when it's on for some reason?
At 27:40 from start of recording turned on. They went away immediately. Turned back off at 28:10. Took about 30secs for them to start up again. Around 31mins getting really big ripples again. So I don't think it's just ability to read them because of this time course.
back on: 43:45. I think it wakes him up when I turn it on. Off at 56:20...immediately started hearing faint ripples again!
74:50 back on. 3 detected ripples and then silence until turned back off at 89mins
^All this turning on and off is using the output switch on the SIU. SIU is still at 40uA.

01/13/2021
Able to see ripples today with stim turned on! Changes made since yesterday:
    moved GND connection to red output instead of black
    changed polarity select to red instead of black
Still seems like maybe fewer of them ... Going to record a bunch of data oscillating between output on and off and see what happens.
Times below are absolute timestamps (not time since started recording like yesterday)
On: ?
Off: 13:15
On: 19:15
Off: 24:45
On: 32:00
Off: 37:30

1/14/2021
Noise is worst when polarity on black and ground hooked to red, or when stim wire is connected on drive but disconnected near SIU. Trying again for a bit with ground connected to black and polarity on red
On: 20:24:25
Off: 10:25:56
Actually looking way better now. Shorter cable and different lead connected to ground. Seeing big ripples on 7, some on 6 too. 6 Seems to have less noise as well.
20:26:56 disconnected stim wire at HS end
Tested single pulse around 20:29:00
Again at 20:29:30
Failed run. First there was a bunch of noise, so unreliable detection. Then data transfer stopped. Shoving the HS into the EIB didn't solve, but unplugging and plugging micro HDMI at commutator fixed. Then though I decided to reset the stats and accidentally triggered a few seconds of rapid fire stimulation. Instead of debugging as the rat kept running around, I turned off stim and took him out.
Ordered HDMI extenders that should be here by tomorrow night. If those don't solve this, may have to lower the whole pulley system so can put commutator directly on instead of hanging down. Alternatively, the rat harness just barely fits him ...
Back in sleep box, noise was still present when stim hooked up. Then 5 mins later tried again and noise was gone. Then while streaming with stim hooked up noise randomly started again ~20mins later. I didn't touch anything. UGH!

1/15/2021
Headstage came off. I put it back on but may have broken some channels.
Put two dabs of superglue to keep the headstage and EIB together

1/16/2021
Yep, these channels are now broken:
t2ch1,2; t3ch1; t7ch1

1/17/2021
OK I've shielded the shit out of this stim wire. Some steps to try tomorrow with rat:
1. Wire as is, attached from above
2. Bring down commutator, avoid having wires near ceiling
3. Disconnect from SIU and attach leads together through a resistor, attach ground to either side
4. Remove long stim wire, attach SIU directly to attahments right above commutator
5. Literally just SIU cables into headstage cables.
6. If 5 good, 4 bad, same length cables that don't go through commutator

1/18/2021
Welp....turns out on the 14th I switched the LED and stim cables when I shortened those wires, so I now have a lesioned VHC. I still have solid ripples on 2 and 3 and one great interneuron on 2

1/19/2021
So just gonna use this rat to try and debug the ground noise and weird lack of ripples when SIU output is on.
Got the huge ground noise figured out, and now with no ground wire attached to the SIU outputs! There's a lot of interference around the desk with all the power lines and apparently the tiny bit of unshielded cable running from the SIU was enough to pick that up strongly. Now with super-duper shielding on most of the cable and the SIU moved away from the desk it looks great. Can even see ripples with the output turned on :D.
Recording with this new setup, stim hooked up but leaving off LED leads for now. Didn't see noise coming from them earlier, but will have to test. Also no input hooked up to SIU.
At 1min recorded, turning output switch to on.
OK there was a weird noise burst (static on ground from me or maybe something from rat moving). Turned off after a couple seconds. Turned on again at 1:20 recorded to get a good clean start.
Some key takeaways:
- If the shielding isn't grounded it doesn't work at all. Can be grounded at either end
- Just the tiny bit of unshielded wire on desk was giving lots of noise, even when disconnected from SIU. Wire elsewhere seems fine, so just a desk issue. Likely main culprit is the SIU charger, in addition to everything else.
Some really solid ripples around 3:20 recorded... with output on!
Still having some issues with HDMI cable connectivity. Should test the holder thing tomorrow.
For tomorrow:
- Try out HDMI stabilizer
- Run on track, see if noise bad when using pulleys
- Interrupt some ripples in sleep box, record just to see what happens
- Email David and update him.

1/20/2021
Current wiring configuration:
Rat - connA - HDMI,stim,LED w/o shielding - commutator - stim/LED w/o shielding - connB - stim/LED with shielding - branchC
stim: branchC - connD - stim w/o shielding for ~1ft on environment next to rat cage - SIU output terminals (no ground attached, polarity on red)
LED: branchC - connD - LED w/o shielding - arduino on desk
stim_signal: arduino on desk - unshielded cables - SIU input terminals
reset_signal: SIU black input terminal - unshielded cable - MCU digital in
Recording today with all connections hooked up except connB, where both connections are disconnected. Shielding is grounded next to connB. SIU power on, output off
Seeing small ripples on 3, same cell on 2.
Some big ripples around 10mins
Around 11mins hooked up LED at connB
Still seeing ripples
Around 17:55 big burst of noise a I plugged in stim at connB
Still clear ripples
Around 19:00 tested single arduino pulse output. Could see signal on Din2 channel, no artifact b/c output at SIU is off.
At 19:55 turned on SIU output switch.
Signal looks ok, big ripples at 20:30. Will leave in this configuration for ~10 mins before moving on.
27:30 - 27:50 moved the SIU back onto the desk. Seeing same 60Hz noise as before.
~28:30, hooked up MCU gnd to black output terminal on SIU. This cuts down on the 60Hz noise a lot and I'm still seeing ripples.
Noisier but still plenty of ripples around 31 mins.
32:00 turned output to off. Ripples unaffected.
32:30 polarity switched to black, output still off, still have ripples.
33:00 output on. Some ripples at first but rate seems to have decreased. Oh wait I think it's just REM.
OK still some big ripples ~41:00 and onward
~44:00 the SIU is back on the environment, output disconnected from ground again.
44:36 switched polarity back to red
~45:00 tested single pulse
46:11 enabling ripple triggered pulse
56:38 turned off output switch on SIU

